[Rollups] Add README (#44841)
elastic/kibana: x-pack/legacy/plugins/rollup/README.md

This plugin allows Kibana to:

1. Create and manage rollup jobs
2. Create rollup index patterns
3. Create visualizations from rollup index patterns
4. Flag rollup indices in Index Management

The rest of this doc dives into the implementation details of each of the above functionality.

---

## Create and manage rollup jobs

The most straight forward part of this plugin! A new app called Rollup Jobs is registered in the Management section and follows a typical CRUD UI pattern. This app allows users to create and manage (start, stop, delete) rollup jobs. There is no way to edit an existing rollup job; instead, the UI offers a cloning ability. The client-side portion of this app lives [here](public/crud_app) and uses endpoints registered [here](server/routes/api/jobs.js).

Refer to [ES documentation](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/rollup-getting-started.html) to understand what rollup indices are, and how rollup jobs create them.

## Create rollup index patterns

> In order for Kibana to consume and use rollup indices for visualizations, similar to regular indices, a index pattern must be created. Because rollup data have limited aggregations and fields available, we store a rollup index pattern's "capabilities" on the index pattern saved object itself. Rollup index patterns have the fields `type` and `typeMeta`, which are not present on regular index patterns. `type` will be the string `rollup` and `typeMeta` will be an object containing the pattern's capabilities.

Reviewer: A few tweaks to @cjcenizal's suggestion:

Kibana uses index patterns to consume and visualize rollup indices. Typically, Kibana can inspect the indices captured by an index pattern, identify its aggregations and fields, and determine how to consume the data. Rollup indices don't contain this type of information, so we predefine how to consume a rollup index pattern with the type and typeMeta fields on the index pattern saved object. All rollup index patterns have type defined as "rollup" and typeMeta defined as an object of the index pattern's capabilities.

> In order for Kibana to consume and use rollup indices for visualizations, similar to regular indices, a index pattern must be created. Because rollup data have limited aggregations and fields available, we store a rollup index pattern's "capabilities" on the index pattern saved object itself. Rollup index patterns have the fields `type` and `typeMeta`, which are not present on regular index patterns. `type` will be the string `rollup` and `typeMeta` will be an object containing the pattern's capabilities.

Author: I'm going to skip this suggestion as I don't think the suggested phrasing is accurate. for regular index patterns, Kibana doesn't do any sort of "inspection" on the indices for consumption; all Kibana-supported aggregations are available for regular index patterns

> Once the user has at least one rollup job configured, in the Index Pattern UI, the standard `Create index pattern` button will become a context menu with two options, one for regular index pattern and one for rollup index pattern. This is done by registering a [rollup config to index pattern creation extension points](public/index_pattern_creation/rollup_index_pattern_creation_config.js), in particular using the `getIndexPatternCreationOption()`. Once the user selects to create a rollup index pattern, this config also adjusts creation wizard in the following ways:

Reviewer 2: "The Index Patterns app's "Create index pattern" button will respond to the presence of rollup jobs by displaying a context menu when the user clicks it. This context menu offers the user the choice of creating a standard index pattern or a rollup index pattern. This change in behavior is implemented by a [rollup config](link) that's registered with the `getIndexPatternCreationOption()` extension point. When the user choose to create a rollup index pattern, this config is used to render the index pattern creation wizard with rollup-specific content and behavior:"

Reviewer: In the Index Pattern app, the "Create index pattern" button  includes a context menu when a rollup job is detected. This menu offers items for creating a standard index pattern and a rollup index pattern. This menu behavior is implemented by a rollup config that's registered with the getIndexPatternCreationOption() extension point. When the user chooses to create a rollup index pattern, this config changes the behavior of the index pattern creation wizard."

> 1. Adds `Rollup` badge to list of matching indices that are rollup indices using `getIndexTags()`.

Reviewer: Adds a `Rollup` badge to rollup indices using `getIndexTags()`.

> 2. Enforces index pattern rules using `checkIndicesForErrors()`. Rollup index patterns must match **one** rollup index, and optionally any number of regular indices. A rollup index pattern configured with one or more regular indices is affectionally known as a "hybrid" index pattern, and this allows the user to visualize historical (rollup) data and live (regular) data in the same visualization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Enforces index pattern rules using `checkIndicesForErrors()`. Rollup index patterns must match **one** rollup index, and optionally, any number of regular indices. A rollup index pattern configured with one or more regular indices is known as a "hybrid" index pattern.  This allows the user to visualize historical (rollup) data and live (regular) data in the same visualization.
```

3. Routes to this plugin's [rollup `_fields_for_wildcard` endpoint](server/routes/api/index_patterns.js), instead of the standard one, using `getFetchForWildcardOptions()`, so that the internal rollup data field names are mapped to the original field names.

> 4. Writes additional information about what aggregations, fields, histogram interval, and date histogram interval and timezone to the rollup index pattern saved object using `getIndexPatternMappings()`. This collection of information referred to as its "capabilities".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Writes additional information about aggregations, fields, histogram interval, and date histogram interval and timezone to the rollup index pattern saved object using `getIndexPatternMappings()`. This collection of information is referred to as its "capabilities".
```

> Once a rollup index pattern is created, it will be tagged with `Rollup` in the list of index patterns, and its details page will display capabilities information. This is done by registering [yet another config for index pattern list](public/index_pattern_list/rollup_index_pattern_list_config.js) extension points.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a rollup index pattern is created, it is tagged with `Rollup` in the list of index patterns, and its details page displays capabilities information. This is done by registering [yet another config for the index pattern list](public/index_pattern_list/rollup_index_pattern_list_config.js) extension points.
```

## Create visualizations from rollup index patterns

> This plugin enables Kibana to create basic visualizations from rollup index patterns (note that this does not include TSVB, Vega, or Timelion). This is done by routing rollup index pattern queries to [Elasticsearch rollup search endpoint](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/rollup-search.html). Querying this endpoint, as opposed to the standard index search, is needed because rollup indices use a different document structure than regular indices. In addition, visualization editor options are also limited to the aggregations and metrics that are available for the specified rollup index pattern.

Reviewer 2: "This plugin enables the user to create visualizations from rollup data using the Visualize app, but not TSVB, Vega, or Timelion. When Visualize sends search requests, this plugin routes the requests to the [Elasticsearch rollup search endpoint](link), which is designed to search the special document structure within rollup indices. Users are limited to fewer visualization options based on the capabilities of the rollup index pattern they're visualizing."

Reviewer 2: Also, are we sure TSVB doesn't handle rollups? I could have sworn I saw @alexwizp had a PR to support this. I can't seem to find it so maybe I'm imagining things, but it might be worth checking with him.

Reviewer: "This plugin enables the user to create visualizations from rollup data using the Visualize app, excluding TSVB, Vega, and Timelion. When Visualize sends search requests, this plugin routes the requests to the Elasticsearch rollup search endpoint, which searches the special document structure within rollup indices. The visualization options available to users are based on the capabilities of the rollup index pattern they're visualizing."

Author: @cjcenizal there has been work in TSVB to support rollup indices, but that work is not handled by this plugin

> Routing to ES rollup search endpoint is done by creating an extension point in courier, effectively allowing multiple "search strategies" to be registered. A [rollup search strategy](public/search/register.js) is registered by this plugin that queries [this plugin's rollup search endpoint](server/routes/api/search.js).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Routing to an Elasticsearch rollup search endpoint is done by creating an extension point in Courier, effectively allowing multiple "search strategies" to be registered. A [rollup search strategy](public/search/register.js) is registered by this plugin that queries [this plugin's rollup search endpoint](server/routes/api/search.js).
```

Not sure, but I think Courier should be capitalized.

Limiting visualization editor options is done by [registering configs](public/visualize/index.js) to various vis extension points. These configs use information stored on the rollup index pattern to limit:

> 1. Available aggregation types

Reviewer: Use a bulleted list instead

2. Available fields for a particular aggregation
3. Default and base interval for histogram aggregation
4. Default and base interval, and time zone, for date histogram aggregation

## Flag rollup indices in Index Management

> In Index Management, similar to system indices, rollup indices are hidden by default and there is a toggle provided to show rollup indices as well as adding a badge to the table rows. This is done by using Index Management's extension points.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Index Management, similar to system indices, rollup indices are hidden by default. A toggle is provided to show rollup indices and add a badge to the table rows. This is done by using Index Management's extension points.
```

> Toggle and badge are registered on client-side [here](public/extend_index_management/index.js).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The toggle and badge are registered on client-side [here](public/extend_index_management/index.js).
```
